README.md, before:

# **UniBook**

## **[View the Live Website Here!]()** ##

![Image](static/images/mockup.png)

## **Code Institute Milestone 3 Project - Backend Development**
The project has been undertaken to build an efficient, simple and accessible book collection website. The site will enable University students, graduates and staff to search through different topics, add books to the sites collection, own a profile and have access links to purchase books. 

The site will feature a log in and register function where the user will gain the ability to add books to their collection and leave a review and score rating. The site willbe in the most simple format possible has been designed to not overwhelm the user with information.



# Table of Contents:
- [**UX**](#--ux--)
  * [User Stories](#user-stories)
  * [Strategy](#strategy)
  * [Scope](#scope)
  * [Structure](#structure)
  * [Skeleton](#skeleton)
    + [**Wireframes**](#--wireframes--)
    + [**Changes to initial wireframes**](#--changes-to-initial-wireframes--)
  * [Surface](#surface)
- [**Features**](#--features--)
  * [1. Landing Page](#1-landing-page)
  * [2. Briefing Page](#2-briefing-page)
  * [3. Future Features](#3-future-features)
- [**Technologies**](#--technologies--)
  * [Languages](#languages)
  * [Libraries, Frameworks and Technologies](#libraries--frameworks-and-technologies)
  * [Workspace and Version Control](#workspace-and-version-control)
- [**Testing**](#--testing--)
  * [Code Validators](#code-validators)
  * [Javascript](#javascript)
  * [Responsive Elements](#responsive-elements)
  * [Data Accuracy](#data-accuracy)
  * [UX User Story Test](#ux-user-story-test)
  * [Bugs and Fixes](#bugs-and-fixes)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
  * [Github Pages Deployment:](#github-pages-deployment-)
  * [Forking The Repository:](#forking-the-repository-)
  * [Creating a local clone:](#creating-a-local-clone-)
  * [Using the sites API functions:](#using-the-sites-api-functions-)
- [**Credits**](#--credits--)
  * [Content](#content)
  * [Media](#media)
  * [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)


# **UX**
## User Stories
----------------


__Applicable to all users__
- As a user, 

__General user__
- As a general user, 

__Returning Users__
- As a returning user, 


## Strategy
----------------
__Project goals__

The aim of this project is present  in a simple and clear but professional way. It was important to create a user-friendly and approachable site with a modern design and feel. The critical data had to be presented to the user in a way that they are familar with. This in-effect makes the site very accessible to people who understand  

The content of the site therefore had to include;
- This
- 

Additionally content that may be of use is;
- The 
- An 

__User goals__ 

The user goals will be met by enabling the user get access to the required data in a clear and concise format. The users require key data and an efficient user experience. The users goals will be achieved through a basic structure . 

__Research__

Through prior experience 


## Scope 
----------------

- 



## Structure
----------------



1. **Landing Page**
- Simple landing page, with solid block colour hero-image featuring an
2. **Briefing Page**
- This section is the key dashboard that enables the user to search for their 


## Skeleton 
----------------
### **Wireframes** ###

The Skeleton of the project design was built utilising [Figma](https://www.figma.com/design-systems/). 

The overall basic design breakpoints can be seen below:

![Image]()

The individual wireframes can be seen by following the links below:
- [xs]()
- [md]()
- [xl]()

### **Changes to initial wireframes** ###
A number of design edits were made throughout the project with the purpose of increased userability and clarity. These include:
- The 
 

## Surface 
----------------
The site aimed to be bright, clear and simple. The colour choice was to be light so that nothing distracts from the key data and information. 

**Colour Theme**

![Image]()

**Typography**

- The font used for both body and headings is [Lato
Designed by Łukasz Dziedzic](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Lato). This font was chosen for its professionalism and clarity.
I wanted to bring a modern design feel to the site and utilising a font that is widely used was effective.
The site also has 'Sans Serif' as an alternative font.

# **Features**
----------------
## 1. Landing Page
-----------------
The landing page features high-quality large solid block image with an 

![Image]()

----------------------
## 2. Briefing Page
----------------------
The Briefing page opens 

![Image]()

The 'How to use" opens a modal that enables the user to learn more about the relevant terminology. The modal also reiterates what an ICAO code is and shows some examples for unfamiliar users. The site links to relevant pages for further reading. 

![Image]()



## 3. Future Features
Future features that could be implemented include:
- A nearby aerodrome locator.
- Specific airport brief detailing runway details and air traffic control frequencies.
- An overlayed map showing route options.
- A point to point briefing, showing weather along the route.

I believe that given my limited knowledge of languages used and the given scope of the project, it was justified to not pursue implementing the aforementioned features.


# **Technologies**
## Languages
---------------
For this project two languages were used:
- [HTML](https://www.w3schools.com/html/#:~:text=HTML%20is%20the%20standard%20markup,learn%20%2D%20You%20will%20enjoy%20it!)
- [CSS](https://www.w3schools.com/css/)
- [Javascript](https://www.javascript.com/)

## Libraries, Frameworks and Technologies
---------------

-

- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) - Bootstrap was used to for its wasy to use grid and repsonsive layout. Elelments of the navbar, cards and forms were taken from the Bootstrap V5.0 CDN.

- [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) - Figma was used to create initial design and wireframes for different breakpoints.

- [Coolors](https://coolors.co) - Used to create colour palette and test colour themes.

- [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/) - Used to source high quality images.

- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - Google font 'Lato' was included in the project.

- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - All icons used throughout the project come from fontawesome.

- [JQuery](https://jquery.com/) - Used for aspects of userability.

- 

- 

- [Mock-Up Generator](https://techsini.com/multi-mockup/index.php) - Used for title photo.

## Workspace and Version Control
--------------------
- [Github](https://github.com/) - The project is hosted on Github and the live website is worked through Github pages.

- [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/) - The project used Gitpod IDE for build and development. 

# **Testing**
## Code Validators 
---------------
A number of code validation techniques were utilised to ensure proper testing of site. 
For HTML and CSS, I used the [W3C Markup Validator](https://validator.w3.org) and [W3C CSS Validation Services](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/). 
See below for results.

- [HTML Test]() - A warning 
- [CSS Test]() - No errors return from CSS test.

A Chrome Developer Tools "Lighthouse" Test was aslo completed to test for accessibility and performance. 
The results are seen below. The site scored well in all aspects of performance and userability. 

![Image]()

## Javascript
--------------
A combination of [JSHint](https://jshint.com/) and manual testing was completed on the javascript to ensure adequate quality. 
- No errors returned for JSHint.
- 

## Responsive Elements 
--------------

The responsivity of the page was tested primarily using [Google Chrome Dev Tools]() and manual resizing of windows. The test provided positive results for each 
device option. The responsive breakpoints and resizing worked throughout the site. The site was shared with colleagues and friends and tested 
on their devices. The site worked well on all devices tested and there was no problem with browser compatibility found during these tests.

Other tools utilised to test responsivity are seen here:
- [Screenfly](https://bluetree.ai/screenfly/) - [Result]()
- [Responsinator](http://www.responsinator.com) - [Result]()
  
## Data Accuracy
--------------
Manual testing was completed 

These tests were completed by comparing data from reputable trusted [sources](https://www.aviationweather.gov/metar) and the data displayed via the [Check WX API]().

## UX User Story Test
--------------
The user stories previously laid out in the UX Design section are tested, to ensure that project achieves the user goals.

__Applicable to all users__
- *As a user, I would like to understand the purpose of the website on landing on the page.*
  - 


## Bugs and Fixes 
--------------
- 

# Deployment 

## Github Pages Deployment:
The project is deployed to GitHub Pages. To deploy the site follow the instruction below.
1. In GitHub navigate to the []().
2. Locate '_Settings_', navigate to '_Source_' and select _Master Branch_ from the dropdown and click _Save_.
3. The site will be published and confirmation shown on the page.

## Forking The Repository:
To create a fork of the Repository simply:
1. Navigate to the []().
2. Select '_Fork_' on the right hand corner of the page.

## Creating a local clone:
1. In GitHub navigate to the []().
2. Above the file list select '_Code_' with the download icon. 
3. To clone select the copy icon at the far right side of URL.
4. Open your terminal in respective IDE, and edit working directory to the desired location.
5. Type `git clone` and paste copied URL.
6. Select Enter and local clone will be created. 

For more specific information relating to the clone follow this [link](https://docs.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository)

## Using the sites API functions:
- [
  - 


# **Credits**
## Content
--------------
 -

## Media 
--------------
The images via [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/) used on the site are credited below:
   - Photo of landing page 

All icons were sourced from [font awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

## Acknowledgements
--------------
Thanks to my family and friends who devoted their time to test the page and proof-read over text. 
Thanks to the [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net) for the tutorials and resources.

Commit message:

user stories and edit button for admin

README.md, after:

# **UniBook**

## **[View the Live Website Here!]()** ##

![Image](static/images/mockup.png)

## **Code Institute Milestone 3 Project - Backend Development**
The project has been undertaken to build an efficient, simple and accessible book collection website. The site will enable University students, graduates and staff to search through different topics, add books to the sites collection, own a profile and have access links to purchase books. 

The site will feature a log in and register function where the user will gain the ability to add books to their collection and leave a review and score rating. The site willbe in the most simple format possible has been designed to not overwhelm the user with information.



# Table of Contents:
- [**UX**](#--ux--)
  * [User Stories](#user-stories)
  * [Strategy](#strategy)
  * [Scope](#scope)
  * [Structure](#structure)
  * [Skeleton](#skeleton)
    + [**Wireframes**](#--wireframes--)
    + [**Changes to initial wireframes**](#--changes-to-initial-wireframes--)
  * [Surface](#surface)
- [**Features**](#--features--)
  * [1. Landing Page](#1-landing-page)
  * [2. Briefing Page](#2-briefing-page)
  * [3. Future Features](#3-future-features)
- [**Technologies**](#--technologies--)
  * [Languages](#languages)
  * [Libraries, Frameworks and Technologies](#libraries--frameworks-and-technologies)
  * [Workspace and Version Control](#workspace-and-version-control)
- [**Testing**](#--testing--)
  * [Code Validators](#code-validators)
  * [Javascript](#javascript)
  * [Responsive Elements](#responsive-elements)
  * [Data Accuracy](#data-accuracy)
  * [UX User Story Test](#ux-user-story-test)
  * [Bugs and Fixes](#bugs-and-fixes)
- [Deployment](#deployment)
  * [Github Pages Deployment:](#github-pages-deployment-)
  * [Forking The Repository:](#forking-the-repository-)
  * [Creating a local clone:](#creating-a-local-clone-)
  * [Using the sites API functions:](#using-the-sites-api-functions-)
- [**Credits**](#--credits--)
  * [Content](#content)
  * [Media](#media)
  * [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)


# **UX**
## User Stories
----------------
In this project there are three groups of target users. They include university students, the admin and site owner and general users. The user stories for eac group are defined below.

__Applicable to all users__
- As a user, I would like to easily navigate and understand the site on landing.
- As a user, I require a link to purchase the books.
- As a user, the ability to log in and register is important.
- As a user, I would like to be able to rate and review books, and add them to the site collection.
- As a user, I need to be able to search the collection for different topics.

__General user__
- As a general user, I require to be able to view and use elements of the site without logging in.
- As a general user, I would like to still have the option to follow the link to buy without registering an account.

__Admin Users__
- As an admin, I require the ability to edit and delete topics and books. 
- As an admin, 


## Strategy
----------------
__Project goals__

The aim of this project is present  in a simple and clear but professional way. It was important to create a user-friendly and approachable site with a modern design and feel. The critical data had to be presented to the user in a way that they are familar with. This in-effect makes the site very accessible to people who understand  

The content of the site therefore had to include;
- This
- 

Additionally content that may be of use is;
- The 
- An 

__User goals__ 

The user goals will be met by enabling the user get access to the required data in a clear and concise format. The users require key data and an efficient user experience. The users goals will be achieved through a basic structure . 

__Research__

Through prior experience 


## Scope 
----------------

- 



## Structure
----------------



1. **Landing Page**
- Simple landing page, with solid block colour hero-image featuring an
2. **Briefing Page**
- This section is the key dashboard that enables the user to search for their 


## Skeleton 
----------------
### **Wireframes** ###

The Skeleton of the project design was built utilising [Figma](https://www.figma.com/design-systems/). 

The overall basic design breakpoints can be seen below:

![Image]()

The individual wireframes can be seen by following the links below:
- [xs]()
- [md]()
- [xl]()

### **Changes to initial wireframes** ###
A number of design edits were made throughout the project with the purpose of increased userability and clarity. These include:
- The 
 

## Surface 
----------------
The site aimed to be bright, clear and simple. The colour choice was to be light so that nothing distracts from the key data and information. 

**Colour Theme**

![Image]()

**Typography**

- The font used for both body and headings is [Lato
Designed by Łukasz Dziedzic](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Lato). This font was chosen for its professionalism and clarity.
I wanted to bring a modern design feel to the site and utilising a font that is widely used was effective.
The site also has 'Sans Serif' as an alternative font.

# **Features**
----------------
## 1. Landing Page
-----------------
The landing page features high-quality large solid block image with an 

![Image]()

----------------------
## 2. Briefing Page
----------------------
The Briefing page opens 

![Image]()

The 'How to use" opens a modal that enables the user to learn more about the relevant terminology. The modal also reiterates what an ICAO code is and shows some examples for unfamiliar users. The site links to relevant pages for further reading. 

![Image]()



## 3. Future Features
Future features that could be implemented include:
- A nearby aerodrome locator.
- Specific airport brief detailing runway details and air traffic control frequencies.
- An overlayed map showing route options.
- A point to point briefing, showing weather along the route.

I believe that given my limited knowledge of languages used and the given scope of the project, it was justified to not pursue implementing the aforementioned features.


# **Technologies**
## Languages
---------------
For this project two languages were used:
- [HTML](https://www.w3schools.com/html/#:~:text=HTML%20is%20the%20standard%20markup,learn%20%2D%20You%20will%20enjoy%20it!)
- [CSS](https://www.w3schools.com/css/)
- [Javascript](https://www.javascript.com/)

## Libraries, Frameworks and Technologies
---------------

-

- [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com/) - Bootstrap was used to for its wasy to use grid and repsonsive layout. Elelments of the navbar, cards and forms were taken from the Bootstrap V5.0 CDN.

- [Figma](https://www.figma.com/) - Figma was used to create initial design and wireframes for different breakpoints.

- [Coolors](https://coolors.co) - Used to create colour palette and test colour themes.

- [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/) - Used to source high quality images.

- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - Google font 'Lato' was included in the project.

- [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - All icons used throughout the project come from fontawesome.

- [JQuery](https://jquery.com/) - Used for aspects of userability.

- 

- 

- [Mock-Up Generator](https://techsini.com/multi-mockup/index.php) - Used for title photo.

## Workspace and Version Control
--------------------
- [Github](https://github.com/) - The project is hosted on Github and the live website is worked through Github pages.

- [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/) - The project used Gitpod IDE for build and development. 

# **Testing**
## Code Validators 
---------------
A number of code validation techniques were utilised to ensure proper testing of site. 
For HTML and CSS, I used the [W3C Markup Validator](https://validator.w3.org) and [W3C CSS Validation Services](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/). 
See below for results.

- [HTML Test]() - A warning 
- [CSS Test]() - No errors return from CSS test.

A Chrome Developer Tools "Lighthouse" Test was aslo completed to test for accessibility and performance. 
The results are seen below. The site scored well in all aspects of performance and userability. 

![Image]()

## Javascript
--------------
A combination of [JSHint](https://jshint.com/) and manual testing was completed on the javascript to ensure adequate quality. 
- No errors returned for JSHint.
- 

## Responsive Elements 
--------------

The responsivity of the page was tested primarily using [Google Chrome Dev Tools]() and manual resizing of windows. The test provided positive results for each 
device option. The responsive breakpoints and resizing worked throughout the site. The site was shared with colleagues and friends and tested 
on their devices. The site worked well on all devices tested and there was no problem with browser compatibility found during these tests.

Other tools utilised to test responsivity are seen here:
- [Screenfly](https://bluetree.ai/screenfly/) - [Result]()
- [Responsinator](http://www.responsinator.com) - [Result]()
  
## Data Accuracy
--------------
Manual testing was completed 

These tests were completed by comparing data from reputable trusted [sources](https://www.aviationweather.gov/metar) and the data displayed via the [Check WX API]().

## UX User Story Test
--------------
The user stories previously laid out in the UX Design section are tested, to ensure that project achieves the user goals.

__Applicable to all users__
- *As a user, I would like to understand the purpose of the website on landing on the page.*
  - 


## Bugs and Fixes 
--------------
- 

# Deployment 

## Github Pages Deployment:
The project is deployed to GitHub Pages. To deploy the site follow the instruction below.
1. In GitHub navigate to the []().
2. Locate '_Settings_', navigate to '_Source_' and select _Master Branch_ from the dropdown and click _Save_.
3. The site will be published and confirmation shown on the page.

## Forking The Repository:
To create a fork of the Repository simply:
1. Navigate to the []().
2. Select '_Fork_' on the right hand corner of the page.

## Creating a local clone:
1. In GitHub navigate to the []().
2. Above the file list select '_Code_' with the download icon. 
3. To clone select the copy icon at the far right side of URL.
4. Open your terminal in respective IDE, and edit working directory to the desired location.
5. Type `git clone` and paste copied URL.
6. Select Enter and local clone will be created. 

For more specific information relating to the clone follow this [link](https://docs.github.com/en/github/creating-cloning-and-archiving-repositories/cloning-a-repository)

## Using the sites API functions:
- [
  - 


# **Credits**
## Content
--------------
 -

## Media 
--------------
The images via [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com/) used on the site are credited below:
   - Photo of landing page 

All icons were sourced from [font awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

## Acknowledgements
--------------
Thanks to my family and friends who devoted their time to test the page and proof-read over text. 
Thanks to the [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net) for the tutorials and resources.
